Switch-Homebrew.md, before:

### Welcome to the fun and exciting world of Switch homebrew! Things here are brand new and highly technical, so we highly recommend that you don't proceed unless you'd like to get your hands dirty. If so, here are the best resources for getting started:
* [LibTransistor](https://github.com/reswitched/libtransistor), the homebrew library from the [ReSwitched](https://reswitched.tech/) team.
* [LibNx](https://github.com/switchbrew/libnx), the homebrew library from the [SwitchBrew](http://switchbrew.org/index.php?title=Main_Page) team.

Available homebrew demos:

| Name        | Download                             | License | Source           | Notes
|-------------|--------------------------------------|---------|------------------|-------------------------
| Spacenx     | https://github.com/vgmoose/spacenx/releases/latest | MIT | https://github.com/vgmoose/spacenx | Download the `NRO` file.
| Oxidgb      | https://github.com/j-selby/oxidgb/releases/latest | MIT | http://github.com/j-selby/oxidgb/tree/libtransistor | No controls, no audio. Contains https://github.com/svendahlstrand/10-print-game-boy/ |
| Kgdoom      | https://github.com/kgsws/kgdoom/raw/master/temp/kgdoom/kgdoom.nro | MIT | https://github.com/kgsws/kgdoom | Crashes on startup due to unimplemented function |
| Push A NX   | https://github.com/Maschell/PushA_NX/blob/master/hello.nro | Unlicensed | https://github.com/Maschell/PushA_NX | A basic "Hello, world" app, uses LibNX. Don't work in the latest version of yuzu because of unicorn fallback issue|
| EasyRPG     | https://easyrpg.org/player/downloads/ -> Continuous builds -> Other | GPL-3.0 | https://github.com/EasyRPG/Player | RPG Maker 2000/2003 game interpreter, uses LibNX |
| Pixel Paint | https://github.com/16BitWonder/Pixel-Painter-Switch/releases/download/v1.5.0/Pixel-Painter.zip | MIT | https://github.com/16BitWonder/Pixel-Painter-Switch | A pixel paint application with 7 colors to choose from, uses LibNX |
| Tic Tac Toe | https://sh3rlock.ch/ttt.nro | Unlicensed | https://sh3rlock.ch/ttt.zip | A simple tic-tac-toe game, uses LibNX |
| pFBA        | http://files.mydedibox.fr/files/Dev/nx/pfba-1.0.nro | Unlicensed | https://github.com/Cpasjuste/pfba/tree/new | Portable Final Burn Alpha, a watered down version of MAME, uses LibNX |
| FCEUmm      | https://gbatemp.net/attachments/retroarch_switch_nes-zip.115761/ | GPL-2.0 | https://github.com/libretro/libretro-fceumm | An NES emulator for RetroArch. ROMs need to be provided seperately, uses LibTransistor |
| Snes9x-2010 | https://gbatemp.net/attachments/retroarch_switch-nro-zip.115733/ | Unlicensed | https://github.com/libretro/snes9x2010 | An SNES emulator for RetroArch. ROMs need to be provided seperately, uses LibTransistor |

Commit message:

Change note of KgDoom because of the new unicorn fallback issue preventing the boot

Switch-Homebrew.md, after:

### Welcome to the fun and exciting world of Switch homebrew! Things here are brand new and highly technical, so we highly recommend that you don't proceed unless you'd like to get your hands dirty. If so, here are the best resources for getting started:
* [LibTransistor](https://github.com/reswitched/libtransistor), the homebrew library from the [ReSwitched](https://reswitched.tech/) team.
* [LibNx](https://github.com/switchbrew/libnx), the homebrew library from the [SwitchBrew](http://switchbrew.org/index.php?title=Main_Page) team.

Available homebrew demos:

| Name        | Download                             | License | Source           | Notes
|-------------|--------------------------------------|---------|------------------|-------------------------
| Spacenx     | https://github.com/vgmoose/spacenx/releases/latest | MIT | https://github.com/vgmoose/spacenx | Download the `NRO` file.
| Oxidgb      | https://github.com/j-selby/oxidgb/releases/latest | MIT | http://github.com/j-selby/oxidgb/tree/libtransistor | No controls, no audio. Contains https://github.com/svendahlstrand/10-print-game-boy/ |
| Kgdoom      | https://github.com/kgsws/kgdoom/raw/master/temp/kgdoom/kgdoom.nro | MIT | https://github.com/kgsws/kgdoom | Unicorn Fallback Issue 0x8000000 prevent from booting (same as Push A NX)|
| Push A NX   | https://github.com/Maschell/PushA_NX/blob/master/hello.nro | Unlicensed | https://github.com/Maschell/PushA_NX | A basic "Hello, world" app, uses LibNX. Don't work in the latest version of yuzu because of unicorn fallback issue|
| EasyRPG     | https://easyrpg.org/player/downloads/ -> Continuous builds -> Other | GPL-3.0 | https://github.com/EasyRPG/Player | RPG Maker 2000/2003 game interpreter, uses LibNX |
| Pixel Paint | https://github.com/16BitWonder/Pixel-Painter-Switch/releases/download/v1.5.0/Pixel-Painter.zip | MIT | https://github.com/16BitWonder/Pixel-Painter-Switch | A pixel paint application with 7 colors to choose from, uses LibNX |
| Tic Tac Toe | https://sh3rlock.ch/ttt.nro | Unlicensed | https://sh3rlock.ch/ttt.zip | A simple tic-tac-toe game, uses LibNX |
| pFBA        | http://files.mydedibox.fr/files/Dev/nx/pfba-1.0.nro | Unlicensed | https://github.com/Cpasjuste/pfba/tree/new | Portable Final Burn Alpha, a watered down version of MAME, uses LibNX |
| FCEUmm      | https://gbatemp.net/attachments/retroarch_switch_nes-zip.115761/ | GPL-2.0 | https://github.com/libretro/libretro-fceumm | An NES emulator for RetroArch. ROMs need to be provided seperately, uses LibTransistor |
| Snes9x-2010 | https://gbatemp.net/attachments/retroarch_switch-nro-zip.115733/ | Unlicensed | https://github.com/libretro/snes9x2010 | An SNES emulator for RetroArch. ROMs need to be provided seperately, uses LibTransistor |
