Switch-Mods.md, before:

# Crash Team Racing: Nitro-Fueled
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
|[15fps](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/626274308494196737/662003166489083904/CTR_15FPS_MOD-V-1.0.0-1.0.9-1.0.11.zip) | Makes the game run full speed at 15fps. Change `61008052` to `01008052` for 60fps gameplay. | `1.0.0` `1.0.9` `1.0.11` | theboy181

# Luigi's Mansion 3
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Save Workaround](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/662057798309380122/LM3v1.2.0_SAVE_FIX.zip) | Works around the saving crash that currently happens in yuzu. | `1.0.0` `1.1.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181
| [15fps](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/662057801413296188/LM3v1.2.0_15FPS.zip) | Makes the game run full speed at 15fps. | `1.0.0` `1.1.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181
| [ASM](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/662057803690541100/LM3v1.2.0_ASM.zip) | Some graphical fixes. | `1.0.0` `1.1.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181

# Mario Tennis Aces
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Disable Dynamic Resolution](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/663259906559705098/Mario_Tennis_Dynamic_Resolution_Fix.zip) | Disables automatic decreasing of resolution. | `1.0.0` `3.1.0` | theboy181

# Pokemon Sword and Shield
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [HD Textures](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BQ5X0-o1cD3DNxIl8P5JIpbZInRq4zSy/view?usp=sharing) | Changes the game's textures to be higher in detail. | `Any` | ?

# Super Mario Odyssey
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Clean UI](https://gamebanana.com/guis/download/34208) | Removes Coins, Moons, Life, and a few other UI elements from the game. | Any | Eloeri
| [High and Low-Resolution Pack](https://gamebanana.com/gamefiles/download/10077) | Makes Resolution for Docked and Undocked higher or lower depending on what mod is used. | Any | zeikken
| [Disable Dynamic Resolution Switching](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/664152331331305504/Disable-Dynamic-Resolution-Switching.7z) | Disables the dynamic resolution switching in the game. | `1.0.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181
| [In-Game Filters](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/664152334007271432/In-Game-Filters.7z) | Allows you to play the game with the screenshot mode's filters still enabled. | `1.0.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181

# The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Cheats](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/661927483729379329/zla-cheats.zip) | Allows for Infinite Ammo, Bombs, Magic Powder, and Rupees. | ? | ?

# The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Clean UI](https://gamebanana.com/guis/download/34141) | Removes Hearts, Stamina, Arrow Reticle, ZL Targetting Arrow, and other UI elements. | Any | Eloeri, Leoetlino

Commit message:

Add Sonic Mania Dev Menu

Switch-Mods.md, after:

# Crash Team Racing: Nitro-Fueled
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
|[15fps](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/626274308494196737/662003166489083904/CTR_15FPS_MOD-V-1.0.0-1.0.9-1.0.11.zip) | Makes the game run full speed at 15fps. Change `61008052` to `01008052` for 60fps gameplay. | `1.0.0` `1.0.9` `1.0.11` | theboy181

# Luigi's Mansion 3
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Save Workaround](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/662057798309380122/LM3v1.2.0_SAVE_FIX.zip) | Works around the saving crash that currently happens in yuzu. | `1.0.0` `1.1.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181
| [15fps](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/662057801413296188/LM3v1.2.0_15FPS.zip) | Makes the game run full speed at 15fps. | `1.0.0` `1.1.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181
| [ASM](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/662057803690541100/LM3v1.2.0_ASM.zip) | Some graphical fixes. | `1.0.0` `1.1.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181

# Mario Tennis Aces
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Disable Dynamic Resolution](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/663259906559705098/Mario_Tennis_Dynamic_Resolution_Fix.zip) | Disables automatic decreasing of resolution. | `1.0.0` `3.1.0` | theboy181

# Pokemon Sword and Shield
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [HD Textures](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BQ5X0-o1cD3DNxIl8P5JIpbZInRq4zSy/view?usp=sharing) | Changes the game's textures to be higher in detail. | Any | ?

# Sonic Mania
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Dev Menu](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/664159694876835860/Sonic_Mania_Dev_Menu.zip) | Allows you to access the game's dev menu by pressing the Minus button. | `1.00` `1.03` | SuperSonic16

# Super Mario Odyssey
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Clean UI](https://gamebanana.com/guis/download/34208) | Removes Coins, Moons, Life, and a few other UI elements from the game. | Any | Eloeri
| [High and Low-Resolution Pack](https://gamebanana.com/gamefiles/download/10077) | Makes Resolution for Docked and Undocked higher or lower depending on what mod is used. | Any | zeikken
| [Disable Dynamic Resolution Switching](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/664152331331305504/Disable-Dynamic-Resolution-Switching.7z) | Disables the dynamic resolution switching in the game. | `1.0.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181
| [In-Game Filters](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/664152334007271432/In-Game-Filters.7z) | Allows you to play the game with the screenshot mode's filters still enabled. | `1.0.0` `1.2.0` | theboy181

# The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Cheats](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/495758692495523854/661927483729379329/zla-cheats.zip) | Allows for Infinite Ammo, Bombs, Magic Powder, and Rupees. | ? | ?

# The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild
| Mod | Description | Applies to | Credit |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------ |
| [Clean UI](https://gamebanana.com/guis/download/34141) | Removes Hearts, Stamina, Arrow Reticle, ZL Targetting Arrow, and other UI elements. | Any | Eloeri, Leoetlino
